So now we can talk a little bit about,
manipulating time.
So we've got another example in here,
called manipulating time.
And this looks like the notifications
that we had previously out of the box.
It does exactly what we had before.
Let's go and like, let's see some of the
fun tools that we have at our disposal.
We'll start out with a very
simple operator let me go over to
manipulating time.
And you can kind of see some of
the ones that we have to work with.
I've already imported them here for us.
We've got delay to bounce and throttle.
We've got some of our old
friends scan map and tap, but
the ones we want talk about delay.
Debounce time throttle time to bounce and
throttle.
These are ways as we talked about before,
if someone starts rage clicking,
maybe we don't want to slam the API,
right?
Maybe we want to ignore things.
A common use case that
we might use RX js for
is figuring out like, okay,
they're typing into an auto Complete,
right?
Every keystroke who wants send
an API request for the search API.
What about if, when they're done
typing for like 300 milliseconds?
Then we'll go someone over.
And so there's a bunch of
the ability to control the rate
at which things happen,
set a super useful operator.
So let's take a look here and
let's see what we can learn along the way.
So we have this button and
we want to delay it.
Two seconds, five seconds, however
many seconds you want into the future.
So we can pass in the delay operator and
save that.
And now and go ahead on the city
to Mississippi and it shows up.
Right now if I right click two
Mississippi, and here they are, right?
Because there's only delay in them two
seconds from when they started that's
spacing them out by two seconds.
It's simply delaying them.
There's a whole bunch of really
interesting ones there are buffer,
which will collect all of them
in a certain amount of time and
give you an array of all
the things that happened.
There's a whole bunch of ones for that
probably aren't common enough to make it
worth their time in the fundamentals
course, but definitely like a one point
you will have one use case where you
need these and they're there for you.
But the common ones that we might have is
be cool if we could stop the rage clicking
especially cuz once you add
a delay to anything that's slow.
I mean, I wrote this and I want to rage
click it when it takes two seconds right.
And so what we could do is we could say,
throttle time, two seconds.
And, I'll repeat this a few times
because it bears repeating.
Throttle time into balance time
are basically two sides of the same coin.
Throttle time says,
let's think through and
then ignore things for
however long, right?
To bounce time is going to be.
Ignore everything till two
seconds of quiet have happened.
I'm apparent to this, I relate to this.
Until this two seconds of quiet and then
I will do whatever it is the last thing
that was queued up for me to do, right?
So throttle time is I'm busy,
wait a minute.
The bounce time is I
need a moment of peace.
However many seconds of silence and
then I will go do whatever I meant to do.
So here we can can put it away two seconds
let's just get rid of that let's just
say throttle time it's now
I can go to town on this.
And really about every two seconds
you'll see another one up here,
even though I am out of control.
Right and then we've got debounce time.
For two seconds, which is.
Don't do anything.
I can keep going I can keep clicking and
go out of control here I can
trigger whatever it is that thing
I never want it Mac OS to do.
I don't need the dictionary word my
browser but I can keep clicking on it
until I stop for two seconds,
then we'll see it actually happen again.
Autocomplete is a great use case for
this, right?
I don't want to hit the API until
I've chilled out for a moment.
I know they're done right?
Anything that might be
potentially expensive.
Like most in browser,
like if you're rendering mark down, for
instance, it's pretty quick.
But if you have something that was
a little bit more long running,
let's not do it every keystroke.
Let's do it at a natural
pause right usually about 300
milliseconds is being good time at
that point and get a sense for it.
And then we've also got just throttle and
bounce and
those work like,
skip until and take until.
Which is basically in total,
another observable emits a value,
either, ignore things until this
other observable emits a value or
do a thing and then stop listening
until something emits a value right?
So you have two things
that maybe are dependent.
You can then tie them together
with just throttle and
bounce effectively we'll look
at a right Donald time and
bounce time in a second but we also have
that panic button on the screen which
is just I couldn't come up with a better
name for a button to be honest with you so
say panic clicks Is from
event panic button.
Click.
And so we've got that now we could
theoretically debounce
based on panic clicks.
Just so the JavaScript doesn't get
angry with me, let's do it in order.
What happens to observable if
you don't subscribe to it?
>> Nothing.
>> Nothing [LAUGH] happens you observe.
The verbal exists and
no one's around to subscribe to it.
Then it doesn't really matter so
we don't actually care what
this one does in this case and again like
we'll find ways to kind of batch them and
automatically subscribe and
unsubscribe a little bit but
we do know that we need to subscribe to
it otherwise, it will never admit event.
This one actually returns the observable,
that you need in this case.
So here's the observable, it needs
a factory functioning this case, right?
Cuz it's not,
should I think that'll work actually?
Cuz this will, so basically do what
I just threatened to which is,
this function will return an observable
that debounce will subscribe to.
Keep hitting it until they
hit the panic button.
So this gives this function creates
an instance of the factory function.
Create an instance of
a panic click observable.
Once that admits it will then go ahead and
let it through throttle
will do the opposite.
Where we can create a notification, but
nothing happens until we hit the button
again, and then we're allowed to
have another one through, right.
So there's different ways
to basically start and
stop different events
from flowing through.
I would argue that throttle time and
bounce time are probably more common but
if you find yourself like okay
like once they started dragging
ignore stuff until a drop event happens.
So on and so forth you have the ability to
have control over different events that
fire and begin to orchestrate them and
coordinate them
>> At some points a predict a being smooth
or like very responsible the prediction
becomes very resource intensive so
not setting 300 millisecond waiting for
events to add.
Do you have a sense of your comment on how
you know RX js handles that if we want
to wait or want to wait for
the end of the session?
How much resource,
how much load is going to get placed?
>> I mean you're playing
with memory in this case,
the more you keeping track of the more
memory you're managing right?
There are ways to basically coordinate
between switching between two
observables exist, so
later we'll look at exhaust map.
So like exhaust map says like cool
until I'm done with what I'm doing,
ignore everything.
Right, but it will kind of
orchestrated and coordinated for you.
Switch map will say, forget what I was
doing, I wanna go do this new thing.
And some of there
are optimizations under the hood.
So, for instance, you're using from fetch,
and you switch map and it stops caring
about the results of that fetch,
it will actually cancel the fetch request.
And use the bar controller
on the fetch API.
So you can kind of do stuff but yeah, the
more you are keeping track of, the more
memory you are going to use as you and
so everything is a set of trade offs.
It depends on what you're optimizing for.
If it is optimizing for
DDoS in your own back end,
then a little bit of memory usage probably
isn't the end of the world however if
you're already playing on the edge then
you might choose to handle it differently.